News - Date: 09 March 2023 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 1488 Twenty-four-year-old Phathutshedzo Tshigomana, a promising young pharmacist from Thohoyandou Block J, was laid to rest at the local Muledane NTK cemetery on Saturday. She died in a tragic car accident that claimed the lives of both her and her fiancé. Phathutshedzo had only worked at her new job as pharmacist at the Bela Bela Hospital for three weeks. As fate would have it, she was on her way back home with her fiancé, Murendeni Tshitimbi, on 11 February when the accident happened on the N1 at Mookgophong. Tshitimbi was declared dead at the scene. Phathutshedzo was seriously injured and rushed to hospital. She had been in the intensive care unit at the Bela Bela Hospital since the accident but succumbed to her injuries on 25 February. Her funeral followed a memorial service held at the Back to Creator Worship Centre at Tswinga, where her mother is a pastor, the previous day. Mourners from all over came in their numbers to pay their last respects. Among them was the revered musician, Dr Irene Mawela. The burial service was conducted by Dr William Madzinge, the founder of the Christian Worship Centre (CWC) in Thohoyandou. Phathutshedzo was described as a loving person who made everyone around her feel at ease. Her mother, Pastor Murunwa Tshigomana, spoke fondly of the love she had for her daughter and the last days they had spent together. She said Phathutshedzo had been appointed at another hospital, but insisted on being moved to the Bela Bela Hospital, so she could be closer to her mother. Phathutshedzo was the third-born child of Mr Makana Tshigomana and Pastor Tshigomana. She started her schooling at Mvudi Primary School and later attended Mbilwi Secondary School, where she matriculated in 2016. She started her studies at the University of Limpopo in 2017, where she completed her degree in pharmacy. Phathutshedzo started her career at the Netcare Hospital in Sandton, Johannesburg, as an assistant pharmacist, and continued her professional journey at a Clicks store in Waverly Pretoria, also as an assistant pharmacist. Phathutshedzo is survived by both her parents and her siblings Thendo, Bongi, Uapfa and Maduvha.  The Tshigomana family at the tombstone of the late Phathutshedzo Tshigomana. Photo: Elmon Tshikhudo.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and was a permanent part of the news team until 2019.  Email: