News - Date: 04 March 2023 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 383 Mr Teddy Nemandivhe, an emerging young Thohoyandou businessman, is set on creating more opportunities for young people to enter the world of business. Nemandivhe (42), who is the founder of the Chillx restaurant in Thohoyandou P East that specialises in a unique type of kota, wants to register his restaurant as a franchise, with young people running the outlets. A kota is a loaf of bread that is normally cut into four quarters, which is traditionally eaten with achar. This has grown into a very popular dish over the years, especially in African cultures. Founded in 2019, and with more than 23 000 followers on social media, the Chillx restaurant is set to bring a major revolution to the kota business. Nemandivhe said he was introduced to the kota while he was working in Cape Town and Soweto between 2005 and 2016. “Kota is the most affordable and popular foodstuff in the townships. In some parts, it is the only meal for the day for many families. Over a period, I observed closely how it was done, and when I came back home, I set up my small business and basically just upsized the kota to a mega meal by adding more ingredients. It became a phenomenal success. It is the first one around Thohoyandou that has a sit-in area. You can take a look around town, but you will never find something like this. We pride ourselves on being the only restaurant that attracts tourists who want to have a taste of township food and life, while listening to good music,” he said. Nemandivhe said that his restaurant’s growing popularity was the reason why he had decided to register it as a franchise, so he could reach people throughout the country. “My aim is to spread this throughout the country. After registration, I will make sure that young people benefit and be the drivers of this initiative. I want to create as many opportunities as possible,” he said. But although he is very excited about these ideas, he admitted that he does not quite have the financial muscle to pull the venture off yet. “I am calling on all who are interested in this venture to come on board. We can create jobs for our people, and especially the youth,” he said. Nemandivhe can be contacted on 084 848 8863.  The kota master from Thohoyandou, Mr Teddy Nemandivhe (standing), serves a customer one of his mega kota meals at his sit-in restaurant. Photo: Elmon Tshikhudo.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and was a permanent part of the news team until 2019.  Email: