News - Date: 13 January 2023 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 1082 A woman and two men appeared in the Dzanani Magistrate’s Court on charges of kidnapping and robbery, following the disappearance of Takalani Jimmy Mukwevho (45), a lecturer at the Vhembe TVET College. Mukwevho went missing nearly three weeks ago. He was last seen at his home in Ha-Mandiwana village in the Siloam area on 18 December. Several searches have been conducted by the police, family and community members, but to no avail. His car and clothes were eventually traced to a man at Mashau village in the Collins Chabane municipality, which led to the arrest of a woman and two men who had allegedly confessed to killing Mukwevho and dumping his body into the Luvuvhu River at the Levubu farms. After this confession, the community of Siloam hired buses to reach the area mentioned by the suspects, where large groups of people started searching the waters and bushes for Mukwevho’s body, but in vain. Mukwevho’s elder brother, Zacharia Mukwevho, said they were still puzzled by the whole incident. “We do not know what had happened to my brother. If they [the suspects] killed him, they know where they dumped the body, but they are taking us on a wild goose chase. This is painful, but we still have hope that they will open up, so we can at least find his body and get closure. He has left a wife and five children behind, with no one to look after them,” he said. The Vhembe Concerned Group’s leader, Mr Richard Ramabulana, who has been helping the family and leading the community in the searches, said they would continue to support the family until Mukwevho was found - dead or alive. Limpopo police spokesperson Col Malesela Ledwaba confirmed the incident and called on those with information that can assist the police to please contact the investigating officer, sergeant Collen Sinyosi, on 082 058 0064, the Crime Stop number on 08600 10111. Alternatively, they can report to the nearest police station or send a message to MySAPSApp. Gudani Malele, Thinandavha Mathisa and Mr Lucas Mukhadi’s case was postponed to 24 February. Gudani will appear on 16 January for a bail application. The missing man, Mr Jimmy Mukwevho. Photo supplied.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and was a permanent part of the news team until 2019.  Email: