News - Date: 27 January 2023 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 1186 The old adage that it never rains but it pours seems to be true for businessman and comedian Livhuwani Madadzhe, popularly known as SABC Livhu. Madadzhe made the headlines repeatedly the past year but not always for the right reasons. Towards the end of last year, the popular Tshivenda comedian was arrested and charged with assaulting his wife, Ms Lindelani Nengovhela. He subsequently appeared in the Thohoyandou Magistrate’s Court, where he was released on R1 000 bail. He is due to appear again on Friday, 27 January. This, however, was not the last of the bad news to follow Madadzhe. On Sunday evening, 15 January, he was at home when he had a close encounter with a huge snake.  He managed to kill the snake, apparently a cobra, before it could cause any harm. The following day, while still recovering from the shock, Madadzhe received a phone call from his office staff at Thohoyandou. Faeces was found on sofas in the office. He now lives in fear and believes that jealous people who cannot stand the idea of his progressing and prospering in life are behind the bad and shocking incidents. “The past three years have not been good for me. Me and my wife would just fight over nothing and after some time all [differences] would be settled and life goes on. I have a strong belief that this is man-made demon [meant] to destabilise our family. Some bad people with deadly intentions are behind these incidents,” he said. Madadzhe said that he had used his God-given talent and skills to succeed in life. “I have achieved so much in life, having built my family a decent and well-furnished house. I also drive a big Audi and I have no doubt my success is giving jealous people sleepless nights and they have teamed up with one intention - to see my demise,” he said. He promised that all these things would not distract him and that he would be pushing forward more than ever before.  Popular comedian SABC Livhu holding the snake that he killed at his house. With him in the photo is his daughter, Muofhe. Photo supplied.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and was a permanent part of the news team until 2019.  Email: