News - Date: 26 January 2023 Written by: Karla van Zyl / Viewed: 121 Louis Trichardt High Schools’ 138 matric learners once again delivered outstanding results during the 2022 senior exams, with a pass rate of 94,85%. In total, they obtained 126 distinctions, with 87 matrics achieving university exemption, while 36 can go study for diplomas and six for higher certificates. Rynard Pretorius finished his high school career with seven distinctions. His distinctions were for Afrikaans home language, English first additional language, mathematics, life orientation, accounting, design and information technology. Also boasting seven distinction was Vongani Mabasa. Her distinctions were for English home language, Afrikaans first additional language, mathematics, life orientation, life sciences, accounting and physical sciences. Marthinus Dekker, 2022’s head boy, obtained six distinctions. His distinctions were for English first additional language, mathematics, life orientation, engineering graphics and design, information technology and physical sciences. Theodore Muzila walked away with five distinctions. His distinctions were for English first additional language, mathematics, life orientation, business studies and physical sciences. Two learners each obtained four distinctions. Bareera Ahmed received distinctions in Afrikaans first additional language, life orientation, life sciences and physical sciences, while Rotondwa Mutavhatsindi received distinctions in Tshivenda home language, English first additional language, life orientation and life sciences. In total, 12 learners obtained three distinctions each. They were Tristan Horak, Lia-Mari van der Westhuizen, Luandi van Zyl, Danelle Venter, Gezelle Koen, Heiletje le Roux, Dzivha Maremba, Tintombi Mhangwani, Zeeshan Yelukar, Michelle Mutami, Akonaho Ralinala en Tulufhelo Rankhododo.  Triegies' top achievers. From left to right are Rynard Pretorious (7 distinctions), Vongani Mabasa (7 distinctions), Marthinus Dekker (6 distinctions), Theodore Muzila (5 distinctions), Bareera Ahmed (4 distinctions) and Rotondwa Muthavhasindi (4 distinctions). Photos supplied.  Karla van Zyl joined the newspaper team in February 2021 as a junior intern.  Email: