News - Date: 20 January 2023 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 374 Three alleged thieves found themselves in very hot water over the festive period when an angry mob tracked them and caught them. Six people who participated in the mob-justice incident now have to face the might of the law. The incident happened at the troubled and crime-infested township of Tshikota on 21 December. The three victims were believed to have broken into Tshikota High the day before, where they allegedly stole many valuable items from the school. A group of residents, who call themselves the Tshikota Anti-Crime group, started searching for these alleged thieves and eventually found them. One of the victims managed to escape, while the other two were taken to the graveyard, where they were severely beaten, then tied up. The mob started pouring petrol over them, but just before they were set alight, one of the victims managed to free himself and make a run for it. The other one was not that lucky. Both victims were admitted to Louis Trichardt Memorial Hospital. One was discharged, while the other one was transferred to Mankweng Hospital with serious burn wounds. The man, identified as Tumelo Mametja (22), died at the hospital on 23 December. On 25 December, the partially burnt and bound body of the first victim who had escaped the mob was found by the pastor in the church at Tshikota. He was identified as Hulisani Mavhungu (22). Six suspects were arrested and charged with murder, kidnapping and attempted murder, following the incident. Adam Manari (46), Jabu Vincent Mashele (56), Tshimangadzo Raphalalani (38), Lavhelesani David Tshimuka (49), Takalani Ramuhashi (46) and Mashudu Ravele (45) first appeared in court on 28 December. Their case was postponed to 18 January for bail applications. At the time of our going to press, the outcome was not yet known. Provincial Commissioner of Police in Limpopo Lieutenant General Thembi Hadebe has warned people strongly against taking the law into their own hands and killing people they suspect of crime. “This incident is highly deplorable, and the culprits have to face the full might of the law. People wanting to contribute to the fight against crime must do so within the existing legal structures, such as the community policing forums (CPFs), community safety forums (CSFs), community in blue (CIBs) or street patrollers. Anything outside the recognised and legal structures is regarded as vigilante groups and the police will be merciless in dealing with lawlessness,” she concluded.  Generic image.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za