News - Date: 28 January 2023 Written by: Maanda Bele / Viewed: 6573 Livhuwani Madadzhe, popularly known as comedian SABC Livhu, was arrested this afternoon in connection with the death of his wife, Lindelani “Mmea Muofhe” Nengovhela. Her body was found this morning at their home in Mangani Ha-Sidou. Although the police did not release the name of the suspect, it is quite clear that Madadzhe was the person arrested on a charge of murder. “The police in Thohoyandou have arrested a 38-year-old man after the body of his wife was found in the water filled pit toilet hole in their yard,” said the Provincial Commissioner of Limpopo Lieutenant General Thembi Hadebe. Hadebe described it as yet another incident of gender-based violence and femicide perpetrated against a vulnerable member of society. “The woman obviously trusted her husband that he would not again physically torment her, but she is now no more. We urge community members having domestic challenges to seek help and desist from resorting to violence,” he said. Limpopo Mirror has reported on numerous occasions on the tumultuous relationship between Madadzhe and his 33-year-old wife. In August 2021 Lindelani claimed that her husband physically abused her. She also alleged that he brought women to their marital home in her presence and emotionally abused her.  At the time she posted on social media platforms that he had abused her, even accusing him of using a sugar cane to beat her on the buttocks. In October last year Madadzhe was arrested, after Lindelani filed new charges. He was then arrested, but the case was postponed on several occasions. He was scheduled to appeared in the Thohoyandou magistrate’s court next week. On Friday, 27 January, the couple were at court where Lindelani withdrew the charges against her husband. Just after 13:00 on Friday, Madadzhe posted pictures on his Facebook site of him and a seemingly elated Lindelani. He also posted pictures of bottles of liquor, presumably indicating that a celebration was waiting. “The suspect called the police this morning and reported that he could not locate his wife, but was surprised to find her dead in the pit toilet hole in their yard,” said Lt Genl Hadebe. He added that a preliminary probe conducted by the police at the scene led to the arrest of the suspect on a charge of murder. Madadzhe is expected to appear in Thohoyandou magistrate court on Monday, 30 January. Livhuwani Madadzhe (left) and his wife, Lindelani “Mmea Muofhe” Nengovhela pose for photos after yesterday's court appearance. (Photo: SABC Livhu Facebook page)  Maanda  Bele, born and raised in Nzhelele Siloam, studied journalism at the Tshwane University of Technology. He is passionate about current news and international affairs. He worked as part of the Zoutnet team as an intern in 2017. He is currently a freelance journalist specialising in news from the Vhembe district.  Email: Maandabele@gmail.com