News - Date: 26 January 2023 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 445 Vhembe District’s legendary school Mbilwi Secondary has done it yet again by being rated the best-performing public school in Limpopo Province, based on the school’s matric results of last year. The school in the Vhembe East Circuit has a proud history stretching over several decades of being a top-performing school, not only in the province, but also in the country. When the 2022 matric results were announced last Friday (20th), Mbilwi’s name featured prominently. Not only did it take top honours as the best public school, but it also produced the best performing teachers in mathematics, physical sciences, life sciences and geography. The school produced the best results in the Club 100 in mathematics, mathematics and physical sciences, and physical sciences. The school’s 2022 Grade 12 learners produced 246 university exemptions, with an overall pass rate of 80.8% and altogether 635 distinctions. The school principal, Mr Cedrick Nyambeni Lidzhade, was beaming with pride and said that this year’s matrics would have to work hard to maintain the standard. “We want to set the record straight to our matric class of 2023, that only hard work pays off. You will reap what you sow. We want all 476 Grade 12 learners this year to keep the standard that was set by last year’s group and continue to reach higher and higher.” Two of the school’s learners did exceptionally well. Orifha Tshikororo obtained 300/300 for mathematics, while Livhuwani Sidebi obtained 300/300 for physical science. “We have strong foundations here at Mbilwi, starting from the lower grades. We pay close attention from Grade 8 to Grade 12, making sure that we complete the syllabus and continuously access their performances. We also have enrichment programmes in all the grades, paying special attention to maths and science, and that is why Mbilwi has been excelling in maths and science since the school was established in 1979,” said Lidzhade. He said that no learner at his school was allowed to linger around and outside the school premises during periods, and that this was another reason why Mbilwi was rated the best, because they believed in discipline and maintaining order. Lidzhade briefed the media on Monday, 23 January, when the school’s star learners and educators were awarded certificates and trophies from the provincial department of education. “Mbilwi qualifies for the elite prestigious Club 100, where a school produces 100 or more candidates who pass mathematics and physical science at 50% or more. Hundred-and seventeen learners in this school obtained 50% or more in mathematics and physical science and we are proud of their achievements,” he said.  The principal of high-riding Mbilwi Secondary School, Mr Cedrick Nyambeni Lidzhade (second from left in blue pull-over jersey) and some of the teachers and current Grade 12 learners show their excitement about the school's good performance in 2022. Photo: Silas Nduvheni.  Email: