News - Date: 27 January 2023 Written by: Maanda Bele / Viewed: 1008 The recently suspended coach of Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila (TTM, Lucky “King Muchincha" Nelukau, is still in custody and will appear in court again on Friday(27th) on charges of assault, pointing of a firearm and kidnapping. The 42-year-old coach first appeared in the Vuwani Magistrate’s Court on Monday, 23 January, and the case was postponed to the next day. When he appeared on Tuesday, the case was again postponed to Friday, for a formal bail hearing. Nelukau is facing charges of assault GBH (grievous bodily harm), pointing of a firearm, and kidnapping. The incident that led to his arrest happened in Tshakhuma Mulangaphuma on Thursday, 19 January. Nelukau was arrested the next day. According to the police, the complainant is Bono Lovers Mudau. The acting police spokesperson in the Vhembe region, Sergeant Vuledzani Dathi, said the victim had been on his way home from visiting a friend in Tshakhuma on Thursday when a bakkie had stopped next to him and an altercation had occurred. Sgt Dathi said that the complainant alleged that Lucky Nelukau, who had been a passenger in the bakkie, had jumped out of the vehicle and produced a firearm, which he had pointed at Mudau. The driver of the bakkie, whom Mudau did not recognise, was wearing a soldier’s uniform. The driver allegedly also got out of the vehicle and pointed a firearm at Mudau, threatening to shoot him. According to the police report, Mudau was assaulted before he was forcibly taken to Nelukau’s house. He alleges that he was further assaulted with a golf stick and tied up with ropes. He was allegedly only rescued when Nelukua’s brother arrived and intervened. Mudau then escaped and ran away. “The victim was [later] taken to Tshilidzini Hospital by an ambulance as he was badly injured,” said Sgt Dathi. Over the weekend, TTM’s management released an official statement, confirming that the coach had been suspended, pending the criminal case’s outcome. “Mr Nelukau is suspended on a precautionary basis as coach of Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila FC, pending an investigation into his developing personal matter with the South Africa Police Services,” the statement reads. In their first game without their coach, TTM were humiliated 5-0 by JDR Stars. The caretaker coach, Ricardo Miriri, was in charge of the team. In an interview after the game, the team’s president, Mr Masala Mulaudzi, said Nelukau was facing a personal problem. “We have to leave everything in the hands of the authorities. I don’t want to comment on that one. I was not there,” Mulaudzi said. When asked about the coach’s future at the team, he said: “He (Nelukau) didn’t do anything wrong to the team. He is still our darling, but for now we are leaving everything to the authorities.” TTM’s suspended coach, Lucky “King Muchinchwa” Nelukau.  Maanda  Bele, born and raised in Nzhelele Siloam, studied journalism at the Tshwane University of Technology. He is passionate about current news and international affairs. He worked as part of the Zoutnet team as an intern in 2017. He is currently a freelance journalist specialising in news from the Vhembe district.  Email: Maandabele@gmail.com