News - Date: 20 January 2023 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 795 The fatal shooting of a young man at a liquor outlet in Madombidzha on Sunday night (15 January) has sent shockwaves through the area. The death of Usivhone Funyufunyu (25) has raised many questions about the rising number of killings at or around liquor outlets. In the space of one month, three people have been killed at liquor outlets. On 25 December last year, a man was killed at Tshiozwi, on 26 December a man was killed at Ravele and now Funyufunyu was killed at Madombidzha. A witness to the killing, who preferred anonymity, said they were sitting and drinking at the liquor outlet. “We were having a good time and enjoying our drinks when we suddenly heard gunfire from the other side, next to the gate of the outlet. It must have been more than five shots. We saw the man with the gun in his hand and realised that someone had been shot right by the gate.” He said the killer ran away after the shooting. They saw a bleeding man lying on the ground. Emergency personnel were summoned, but they certified the victim dead at the scene. Limpopo police spokesperson Brig Motlafela Mojapelo confirmed the incident. He said that the victim had been identified as a local resident, and that the young man had been shot dead next to the gate of Maemu Bar Lounge. "We have opened a murder case in respect of the incident. A 29-year-old suspect from Magau was arrested and appeared in the Tshilwavhusiku Magistrate’s Court on 18 January,” said Mojapelo. Funyufunyu will be buried on Saturday, 21 January. The service starts at 06:00 at his home in Madombidzha.  The late Usivhone Funyufunyu from Madombidzha. Photo supplied.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za