News - Date: 13 January 2023 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 806 Community members at Mukula outside Thohoyandou are still reeling from shock, following the discovery of a local woman’s body. The woman, the 35-year-old Avhurengwi Rambuda, had gone missing on 30 December. Her body was found last week, wrapped in a blanket and left on top of an unused pit toilet. The grisly discovery was apparently made by a relative on 3 January. Rambuda’s body was covered in gaping wounds and she appeared to have been attacked with a sharp blade, presumably something like a panga. What added to the mystery was that one of her hands had been cut off at the wrist and was missing completely. The incident has evoked mixed emotions within the community but is strongly believed to be a case of domestic violence. The local Thulamela Ward 13 councillor, Cllr Hulisani Mabasa, said that the murder certainly raised a lot of questions. “Firstly, what happens when you don’t see your neighbour for days and do not do anything about it? Also, are we doing enough to nurture and raise our children? In this case, the answer is no. The suspect has been doing bad things for some time, and this is the result. We are devastated and something needs to be done to rid our community of such behaviour,” he said. A family member told this newspaper that they were still very distressed and could not comment. Limpopo police spokesperson Col Malesela Ledwaba confirmed the incident and urged Mr Azwimpheleli Mashau (Rambuda’s boyfriend) to avail himself to the nearest police station as they believe he might be able to help in their investigation. Anyone with information that can lead to the arrest of the suspect is urged to contact the investigating officer, sergeant Rambuluwani Nekhavhambe, on 071 511 1213, the Crime Stop number 08600 10111, their nearest police or go to the My SAPSApp.  The late Avhurengwi Rambuda. Photo supplied.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and was a permanent part of the news team until 2019.  Email: