News - Date: 03 February 2023 Written by: Maanda Bele / Viewed: 499 The suspended coach of Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila (TTM), Lucky “King Muchincha” Nelukau, is out on bail. Nelukau appeared in the Vuwani Magistrate’s Court for the second time on Friday, 27 January, and was granted R5 000 bail. He will appear again on 14 March. Nelukau was suspended as coach of TTM on a precautionary basis on 22 January, pending the outcome of this criminal case. According to the police, Nelukau assaulted two people on 19 January and was arrested the next day. One of the victims is Bono Lovers Mudau. The other one was not named. The acting police spokesperson in the Vhembe region, Sergeant Vuledzani Dathi, said the victim had been on his way home from visiting a friend in Tshakhuma on the day the assault occurred, when a bakkie had stopped next to him and an altercation had occurred. Sgt Dathi said that the complainant alleged that Lucky Nelukau, who had been a passenger in the bakkie, had jumped out of the vehicle and produced a firearm, which he had pointed at Mudau. The driver of the bakkie, whom Mudau did not recognise, was wearing a soldier’s uniform. The driver allegedly also got out of the vehicle and pointed a firearm at Mudau, threatening to shoot him. According to the police report, Mudau was assaulted before he was forcibly taken to Nelukau’s house. He alleges that he was further assaulted with a golf stick and tied up with ropes. He was allegedly only rescued when Nelukua’s brother arrived and intervened. Mudau then escaped and ran away. “The victim was [later] taken to Tshilidzini Hospital by an ambulance as he was badly injured,” said Sgt Dathi.  The suspended coach of Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila (TTM), Lucky “King Muchincha” Nelukau.  Maanda  Bele, born and raised in Nzhelele Siloam, studied journalism at the Tshwane University of Technology. He is passionate about current news and international affairs. He worked as part of the Zoutnet team as an intern in 2017. He is currently a freelance journalist specialising in news from the Vhembe district.  Email: Maandabele@gmail.com