News - Date: 26 February 2023 Written by: Maanda Bele / Viewed: 297 Valentine’s Day, celebrated annually on 14 February, is considered “the day of love” when people put in extra effort to make their loved ones feel special and appreciated. This show of affection is often demonstrated by spoiling each other with flowers or gifts. For Ms Tshinane Siobo from Nzhelele, however, Valentine’s Day took on a whole new meaning this year when she was spoiled with a fully furnished, two-bedroom house with flushing toilet, living room and kitchen. This generous gift was presented by the Collen Mashawana Foundation, Old Mutual and the Limpopo Department of Health. The hand-over was attended by dignitaries such as Limpopo MEC for Health Dr Phophi Ramathuba, Makhado Municipal Mayor Samuel Munyai, Makhadzi Muimbi, Khuliso Muvex Muvhango and representatives of the Collen Mashawana Foundation and Old Mutual. The new house was built in Tshirolwe Extension 2 in Nzhelele. On 30 January last year, the 38-year-old woman and her two children lost their home after her partner had burnt it down. Her then boyfriend allegedly poured gasoline over her and the house, locked Siobo and her children in, then set the house on fire before fleeing the scene. The neighbours came to their rescue and rushed them to the Siloam Hospital, from where they were transferred to the Mankweng Hospital. Her and her little girl’s lives were saved, but her son did not survive the fire. For over a year now, Siobo has been without employment, living with relatives as a squatter in Murunwa village. During the hand-over ceremony of the new house, Siobo, overcome with emotion, said that her only sin had been to love a jealous man. “I am a victim of gender-based violence. I loved a man who was jealous of my achievements, a man who would steal my children’s clothes and SASSA card. I opened a lot of cases against him, but he was always released, until the day he tried to kill us. I am grateful that I met Good Samaritans who took such good care of me and my child.” Mr Collen Mashawana said he chose to do the hand-over of the house on Valentine’s Day to show Siobo that they were loved. Siobo said she still feared for her life as the perpetrator had still not been arrested. The Siloam police confirmed that the suspect is still at large, and a manhunt has been launched for his arrest.  Ms Tshinane Siobo and Limpopo MEC for Health Dr Phophi Ramathuba cut the ribbon in front of Siobo’s new home. Photo: Maanda Bele.  Maanda  Bele, born and raised in Nzhelele Siloam, studied journalism at the Tshwane University of Technology. He is passionate about current news and international affairs. He worked as part of the Zoutnet team as an intern in 2017. He is currently a freelance journalist specialising in news from the Vhembe district.  Email: Maandabele@gmail.com