News - Date: 11 February 2023 Written by:  / Viewed: 885 The mother of a young man who was brutally killed in Dopeni on 27 November last year cried hysterically when the two young men accused of the murder of her son walked freely into the Thohoyandou Magistrate’s Court on Thursday, 2 February. The victim, Murendeni Ralinala (21), was a part-time photographer and the breadwinner at home. According to Mr Phathutshedzo Ramabulana, one of the community leaders from Nzhelele, the two suspects had allegedly cornered Ralinala and his friend on their way home on the evening of the incident and demanded money and cell phones. When they produced knives, Ralinala’s friend ran for dear life, while the suspects caught Ralinala and stabbed him several times before they ran away without taking anything. Ralinala died on the spot. Tsepho Munarini (22) was arrested a day after the incident, while Andani Munzha (18) was apprehended six days later. When the suspects appeared in court last Thursday, Ramabulana led the crowd of angry villagers who arrived at the courthouse in two packed buses. He said that the problem with violent behaviour in the village of Dopeni was mainly caused by people who sold drugs to the youngsters. He and the other protesters were chanting and singing that the two men should not be given bail, thinking that the accused were still in custody. The victim’s mother, Ms Tshililo Ralinala, was not aware that the two accused had been released on bail either when she arrived at court. “The investigating officer in this case never told us that the suspects applied for bail, let alone that they were released. How could they be granted bail so quickly after they [allegedly] have committed a murder? They are moving around freely as if they have killed a dog, when my son lies six feet underground,” she said. She was crying hysterically, and family members and members of the SAPS had to calm the distraught woman down before the court proceedings could continue. Later, outside the courthouse, Ms Ralinala said that the state had arranged several counselling sessions for her, but that this was not working. “I keep on thinking that one day I will see my son coming home with his camera bag. Justice in this country is for the rich and the connected. Because we are poor, the police and the justice system don’t respect our rights. But the Lord Almighty will fight for us,” she sobbed. The case was postponed to 6 March 2023 for further investigations. The two suspects are still out on bail.  The late Murendeni Ralinala, who was stabbed to death on his way home from work in November last year. He was a part-time photographer. Photo supplied.  Email: