News - Date: 09 February 2023 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 773 A 78-year-old granny of Mashau-Bodwe died and one of her daughters was seriously injured when the boyfriend of the woman’s daughter allegedly attacked them at their home late on the evening of 20 January. Granny Marandela Mabasa, her daughter Idah (32) and Idah’s three-year-old son were sleeping on the night of the incident. Idah’s boyfriend, Nomthandazo Joseph Baskiti (who is also the father of her child) suddenly showed up and knocked on the door of their house. According to the police report, Mabasa opened the door and went back to her bedroom. Before they knew what was happening, Baskiti was inside Mabasa’s bedroom, allegedly strangling her and threatening to kill her if she did not tell him where Idah was. (Idah was sleeping in a separate room.) Baskiti then allegedly started to stab her with a sharp object. Idah tried to intervene and pleaded with him to stop. She ran outside to call for help, but Baskiti followed her and pinned her to the ground, where he allegedly also stabbed her several times over her body. Baskiti then allegedly set the six-room house on fire before fleeing the scene, taking his little boy with him. Neighbours saw the fire and came running and called the police, while some doused the burning house. Mabasa and Idah were rushed to the Polokwane Provincial Hospital. Late on Saturday, 28 January, Mabasa succumbed to her injuries. Idah was discharged from the hospital two days later (30 January). According to Mabasa’s son, Aluwani, Idah had been in an abusive relationship with Baskiti. Just the day before the incident, Baskiti was released on R500 bail after Idah had laid a charge of assault against him. Aluwani said the families had held several meetings over the years to intervene and he himself had gone to the local police station on several occasions to get a restraining order against Baskiti. He said that Baskiti had taken Idah’s car and her bank card on the night of the incident. He allegedly later withdrew R10 000 out of her account and dumped the vehicle next to the N1. Limpopo police spokesperson Brig Motlafela Mojapelo said the Levubu police had opened a docket of murder, attempted murder, arson and kidnapping and robbery. The investigation continues. He urged community members with information on Baskiti’s whereabouts to help them locate him. Granny Mabasa was buried at Mashau Bodwe on Saturday, 4 February.  The Levubu police are looking for Nomthandazo Joseph Basikiti. Photo supplied.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za