News - Date: 10 February 2023 Written by:  / Viewed: 5010 By Maanda Bele and Elmon Tshikhudo Rumours that the recently arrested comedian Livhuwani Madadzhe is being sexually abused in prison are false. SABC Livhu, as Madadzhe is famously known, was arrested and charged with the murder of his wife, Lindelani Nengovhela (or Mia Muofhe), not long after she was found dead in a water-filled ditch at the family’s home at Mangondi Sidou on Saturday, 28 January. Shortly after his arrest, a video sent by a fellow-inmate at the Matatshe prison in Vondwe started circulating on social media. The inmate describes himself as a “general of Suka Emabozeni”. In the video, he says (translated from Tshivenda): “Instructions are instructions. Livhu must get here fast. He must explain to me what he was saying in the letters that he wrote. I am here in Vondwe. The truth is that, in my capacity as a general of Suka Emabozeni, I will examine him.” The circulation of the video added to speculation trending on Facebook that Madadzhe might face a hard time in prison, with some of his followers starting to assume that he might be physically and sexually abused. Ms Tshidi Mapole, the regional coordinator of communications at the Department of Correctional Services - Limpopo, Mpumalanga and North West, said that the allegations that Madadzhe might be abused were not true. “No report of such incident was received from the inmate (Madadzhe) during unlock this morning (Wednesday, 8 February). He is okay and in good health.” Mapole said that, because Madadzhe was a high-profile inmate and placed in the high-risk category, he had been put in a single cell. “High-profile offenders are not given preferential treatment by being placed in single cells. They are categorised as high-risk because of their high-profile status, making them vulnerable to attacks by other inmates. It’s our duty as the Department of Correctional Services (DCS) to incarcerate every inmate under safe and humane conditions.” Mapole also added that the inmate on the video’s phone was taken from him. “An investigation was instituted, following the circulation of the video. The inmate was found to be illegally in possession of the cellphone, leading to him being internally charged with misconduct and losing some of his privileges,” she added.  An old photo of Livhuwani Madadzhe, aka SABC Livhu, behind bars during one of his previous arrests. Photo: Facebook.  Email: