News - Date: 10 February 2023 Written by: Thembi Siaga / Viewed: 366 Teachers and learners at Muthuhadini Combined School are still in a state of turbulence after a Grade 10 learner chased the principal around the school premises with an axe on Thursday, 2 February. According to Mr David Ndou, the chairperson of the school-governing body (SGB), one of the school’s teachers reported the learner in question’s disruptive behaviour during classes to the head of department (HOD). When the learner was rebuked by the HOD and the teacher, he swore at them. The principal then came to investigate the situation. “He (the boy) was swearing at both the principal, teacher and school HOD, so the principal gave him a pass to go home. It was not long before the learner returned and forcefully entered the school premises with an axe hidden inside his trousers. He went straight to the principal’s office, but couldn’t find him. The learner searched for the principal, found him, and started chasing him with the axe.” Ndou said that the principal had managed to escape to the school hall unharmed, and had been rescued by the learner’s brother and some of the other teachers. The learner was escorted from the school premises. On Friday, 3 February, the principal laid a complaint of intimidation and assault at the Waterval Police Station. A case was opened and the learner was expelled from the school. This is not the first violent incident at the school. Last year, one of the school’s learners allegedly stabbed a pupil from another school to death. In an effort to resolve this issue, parents, teachers and members of the SGB met on Monday, 6 February. During this problem-solving meeting, both the teachers and parents put their concerns on the table. One of the parents accused the principal of creating problems by expelling learners who are disruptive without adhering to the school’s code of conduct. The schoolteachers said that some parents threatened them when they were called to the school to assist in dealing with matters involving their children. The majority of parents suggested that six other troublesome Grade 10 and 11 learners, whose names were mentioned during the meeting, should also be expelled. A further suggestion was made that the school increase its security. Ndou said that most of the troublesome learners at the school were under the influence of drugs, like dagga. The police spokesperson, W/O Foster Rambau, confirmed both cases (the one where the learner chased the principal as well as the one where the learner stabbed a pupil from another school to death). “As both suspects are minors, their cases are being assessed by the probation officer, who is a social worker,” he said.  The chairperson of Muthuhadini Combined School’s SGB, Mr David Ndou, addressing the meeting that was held at the school after a Grade 10 learner chased the principal around the school premises with an axe. Photo: Thembi Siaga.  Thembi Siaga started as an intern during 2021. He assisted with video photography and editing. He also produced numerous small documentaries, focusing on the Vhembe region and its people. Currently he works as a freelance journalist, covering stories in the Elim area. Thembi studied at the Tshwane University of Technology, where he completed his diploma in Journalism in 2021.  Email: