News - Date: 24 February 2023 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 648 The family of a policeman who allegedly survived a plot by his wife to have him murdered, after one of the hitmen she had hired turned whistle-blower and exposed her, is crying foul, blaming the justice system of dragging its feet in the case. On 24 February 2021, Ms Elelwani Jane Nedzamba (37) was arrested after the police had received a tip-off that she was planning to murder her husband, Mr Jutas Gabara (46), a police officer at Makhado SAPS’s Dog Unit. Nedzamba made her first appearance in the Thohoyandou Magistrate’s Court on 26 February 2021, on a charge of conspiracy to commit murder. She was granted R1 000 bail and the case has since been dragging on without conclusion, according to the victim’s family. The family spokesperson, Mr Nthambeleni Gabara, said they were not satisfied with the way the case was being handled from the onset. He said the NPA had everything necessary to prosecute, but that nothing was happening. He also questioned how a suspect with deadly intentions could be granted bail so easily. “As a family, we are very disappointed. We know that everyone is presumed innocent until proven otherwise by a court of law, but in this regard, we see a court of law that is not interested in proving the suspect otherwise. We have no reason whatsoever to attack the justice system, but their decision to grant the suspect bail, in our view, is tantamount to making it fashionable for criminals to kill police officers.” Gabara said that, by delaying the case, they were denying his brother justice and that his safety could not be guaranteed. “We are worried about the fact that one of the key witnesses, as well as the investigating officer, had died last year. This, with the delays, could collapse the case. Our appeal to the justice system is to finalise this case in a manner that would send a clear message to those who want to commit similar crimes,” he said. Nedzamba appeared in the Sibasa Regional Court on Thursday, 16 February this year, where the case was postponed to 23 March to give the new investigating officer time to familiarise himself with the case. Her R1 000 bail was extended.  Mr Nthambeleni Gabara, the brother of the policeman who was nearly killed after his wife had allegedly hired hitmen to have him killed, is worried about the delay in finalising the case. Photo supplied.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and was a permanent part of the news team until 2019.  Email: